# Troubleshooting

## "Temporary failure resolving …" or "Could not resolve host: …"

This error has two main/probable causes:
- Your internet connection is down
- DNS misconfiguration on the VM

To check if your internet connection is down, try running `ping 8.8.8.8` in the VM's terminal
(8.8.8.8 is points to Google's servers).
If this is successful, then your internet connection is working, and the issue is probably DNS misconfiguration.

Example successful `ping 8.8.8.8` output:
```
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=55 time=2.60 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=2 ttl=55 time=2.78 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=3 ttl=55 time=3.14 ms
^C
--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 2.598/2.838/3.140/0.225 ms
```
Note that ping will not stop by itself, you need to press `Ctrl+C` to stop it (the `^C` in the output indicates that I pressed `Ctrl+C`).

Now, try running `ping google.com` in the VM's terminal.
If this fails, then the issue is DNS misconfiguration.

Run `sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf` in the VM's terminal.
Replace the contents of the file with the single line `nameserver 8.8.8.8`.

Now, try running `ping google.com` in the VM's terminal again, and verify that it works.

If the problem returns after a few minutes, check if the file `/etc/resolv.conf` has been modified.
Most likely, there is a program autogenerating the `/etc/resolv.conf` file and overwriting our change.
Usually, the file will tell you which program is autogenerating it.
You can go ahead and stop it (e.g. for `resolvconf`, run `systemctl stop resolvconf.service`)

Example of autogenerated `/etc/resolv.conf` file:
```
# Generated by resolvconf
search lan lawn.gatech.edu
nameserver 127.0.0.1
options edns0
```
